---
layout: post
title:  "Corpus"
date:   2021-03-29 18:42:28 -0400
categories: jekyll update
---

**Corpus Discussion June 1925**

My original [corpus](https://github.com/comp-methods-fsu-2021/Ward_Corpus/blob/main/1925%20Issue_Cleaned.txt) included six issues of the
magazine Proceedings published by the United States Naval Institute.  By itself it was unworkable.  The June 1925 issue includes several
articles that are of use.  The first [article](https://voyant-tools.org/?corpus=8b3fcb180f589ff903a57d28e74dfe52) reveals some interesting
word associations in the discussion of which ships were needed for the future.  In the era where the battleship was the dominat naval vessel,
there is plenty of discussion of other vessels, notably aircraft carriers.  This is also the period between the Washington and London Naval 
Treaties and the word associations revealed with this data indicates the major powers attempts to project naval power within these restrictive 
treaty limits.

Another portion titled [Professional Notes](https://github.com/comp-methods-fsu-2021/Ward_Corpus/blob/main/1.4_PROFESSIONAL%20NOTES_Various)
provides information on the analysis between the current British and American battle fleets.  The article provides information on the speed,
caliber of guns, and range of these guns and argues that the American fleet could defeat the British fleet due to superior range. A careful
[Fleet Speed Analysis](https://public.tableau.com/profile/david.ward5594#!/vizhome/Corpusv1/Sheet2?publish=yes) demonstrates that while a few
American vessels did out-range the British ships, the British ships were generally faster than their American counterparts.  The American
ships posessed a uniform speed but many British ships were significantly faster.  How many salvos from the longer ranged guns of the Americans could be brought 
to bear before the British superior speed could close the gap is the operative question.